---
file-name: "202601221250"
summary: Mark Carney’s speech felt like a marker of sorts — one we may look back on as heralding a significant shift in global geopolitics.
date: 2026-01-22T12:50:43.867Z
updated: 2026-02-01T12:31:43.867Z
location:
  locality: Crawley
  country_name: UK
category:
  - geopolitics
  - speech
  - canada
  - russia
  - ukraine
  - world
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: false
---

<ins>On refection I find I've changed my mind about the weight I put behind Mark Carney's speech at Davos.</ins> {.call-out}

<del>Beyond the often one-sided Western narrative about Russian aggression in Ukraine and the risks it poses to global security, Mark Carney’s speech felt like a marker of sorts &mdash; one we may look back on as signalling a significant shift in global geopolitics.</del>

<del>Perhaps the end of the unipolar world order dominated by the West, particularly the US, and the beginning of something new: a multipolar world where power is more evenly distributed among several nations.</del>

<ins>I think Mark Carney's speech just pulls back the veil on what has been happening behind the scenes for quite some time now. I wouldn't necessarily credit his speech with being the moment that heralds a significant shift in global geopolitics. As if it were some sort Martin Luther type moment.</ins>

<ins>Carney admitting that the international rules based order was just pretend is hardly groundbreaking news. The West has been operating under a set of self-serving rules for decades, bending them to suit their own interests whenever it suits them. It's more like Carney just gave away the mythology of it all. I wonder if he gave away much more than he intended to. 🤔</ins>

I guess time will tell.

<div class="video">
	<div class="video--inner">
		<iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/flsgJe8mN-A?si=ay9xeiqKS4WuVdIe=0&amp;start=144" title="YouTube video player." allow="encrypted-media; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
	</div>
</div>
